Updated Optimize and Deploy Generative AI Models documentation article (#22356)
openvinotoolkit/openvino: docs/articles_en/openvino_workflow/gen_ai.rst

.. note::

   OpenVINO also supports 4-bit models from Hugging Face `Transformers <https://github.com/huggingface/transformers>`__ library optimized
   with `GPTQ <https://github.com/PanQiWei/AutoGPTQ>`__. In this case, there is no need for an additional model optimization step because model conversion will automatically preserve the INT4 optimization results, allowing model inference to benefit from it.

Another optimization that is applied by default when using ``OVModelForCausalLM`` class is transformation of the model to a stateful form.
This transformation further improves inference performance and decreases amount of allocated runtime memory in long running text generation scenarious.
It is achieved by hiding inputs and outputs of the model that represent past KV-cache tensors, and handling them inside the model in a more efficient way.
This feature is activated automatically for a wide range of supported text generation models, keeping not supported models in a regular, stateless form.

> Model usage are identical for stateful and stateless models as long as Optimum-Intel API is used because KV-cache handling is an internal detail of how Optimum-Intel is implmented under the hood.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Model usage are identical for stateful and stateless models as long as Optimum-Intel API is used because KV-cache handling is an internal detail of the text-generation API of Transformers library.
```

Now the model can be converted to OpenVINO using Optimum Intel Python API or CLI interfaces mentioned above.

Running Generative AI Models using Native OpenVINO APIs
########################################################

To run Generative AI models using native OpenVINO APIs you need to follow regular **Сonvert -> Optimize -> Deploy** path with a few simplifications.

> To convert model from Hugging Face, the recommended way is to use Optimum-Intel export feature that allows to export model in OpenVINO format without invoking conversion API and tools directly, as it is shown above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To convert the Hugging Face model, the recommended way is to use Optimum-Intel export feature that allows to export model in OpenVINO format without invoking conversion API and tools directly, as it is shown above.
```

In this case, the conversion process is significantly simplified because Optimum-Intel provides necessary conversion parameters which in many cases model-specific and require knowlege of a lot of model input properties.

> Moreover, Optimum Intel applies several model optimization like weight compression and using stateful form by default that further similifies model exporting flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moreover, Optimum-Intel applies several model optimization like weight compression and using stateful form by default that further similifies model exporting flow.
```

You can still use a regular conversion path if model comes from outside of Hugging Face ecosystem, i.e., in source framework format (PyTorch, TensorFlow etc.)

Model optimization can be performed within Hugging Face or directly using NNCF as described in the :doc:`weight compression guide <weight_compression>`.

Inference code that uses native API cannot benefit from Hugging Face pipelines. You need to write your custom code or take it from the available examples. Below are some examples of popular Generative AI scenarios:

> * In case of LLMs for text generation, you need to handle tokenization, inference and token selection loop, and de-tokenization. If token selection involves beam search, it also needs to be written. This is covered in details by `C++ Text Generation Samples <https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino.genai/tree/master/text_generation/causal_lm/cpp>`__`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In case of LLMs for text generation, you need to handle tokenization, inference and token sampling, and de-tokenization. If token sampling involves beam search, it also needs to be written. This is covered in details by `C++ Text Generation Samples <https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino.genai/tree/master/text_generation/causal_lm/cpp>`__`
```
